.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" oauth-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH OAUTHSIGN 1 "October 16, 2008"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins (default)
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\"
.\" defines for verbose text
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..

.SH NAME
oauthsign \- oauth command line tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oauthsign
.RI [ options ]
.RI < URL >
.RI [ CKey ]
.RI [ CSec ]
.RI [ TKey ]
.RI [ Tsec ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBoauthsign\fP offers a simple way to generate or make OAuth signed HTTP requests.
.PP
\fBoauthsign\fP implements an OAuth consumer...
.SH OPTIONS
\fBoauthsign\fP accepts the following options:
.TP
.B  --dry-run
Take no real actions.
.TP
.B  --no-warn
Disable warnings.
.TP
.BR  -q , " --quiet" , " --silent"
Inhibit usual output.
.TP
.B  -v, --verbose
Print more information.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-base-string
Print OAuth base-string and exit.
.TP
.B \-B, \-\-base-url
Print OAuth base-URL and exit.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-request <type>
Set the HTTP request type (HEAD, PUT, POST, GET [default],..).
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-post
Same as '-r POST'
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-data <key>[=<value>]
Add key=value URL query parameters.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-signature-method <method>
Specify the oauth signature method (PLAINTEXT, RSA-SHA1, HMAC-SHA1 [default]).
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-CK, \-\-consumer-key <text>
Set consumer-key.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-CS, \-\-consumer-secret <text>
Set consumer-secret.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-TK, \-\-token-key <text>
Set token-key.
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-TS, \-\-token-secret <text>
Set token-secret.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file <filename>
Read tokens and secrets from config-file.
.TP
.B \-w
Write tokens to config-file.
.TP
.B \-F <filename>
Set config-file name w/o reading the file. useful for writing to a different file than reading eg. '-f file1 -F file2 -w'
.TP
.B \-x
Make HTTP request and return the replied content.
.TP
.B \-X
Make HTTP request and parse the reply for tokens.
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Take no real actions (with -x, -w or -X)
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-erase-token
Clear the [access|request] token (key&secret).
.TP
.B \-E, \-\-erase-all
Wipe consumer and token information and reset signature method to HMAC-SHA1.
.TP
.B \-\-erase-consumer-key
Unset the required consumer-key (don't require a specific consumer-key for the validation to succeed)
.TP
.B \-\-erase-consumer-secret
Unset the consumer-secret
.TP
.B \-\-erase-consumer-key
Unset the required token-key (any token will validate)
.TP
.B \-\-erase-token-secret
Unset the token-secret
.TP
.B \-\-G
Print the request-parameters as url-encoded string according to RFC3986, even if the POST method was choosen.
.TP
.B \-\-P
Toggle parameter escaping for output. with -P, POST params will be escaped and GET parameter won't. This is non-standard behaviour.
.TP
.B \-\-curl
Output a curl commandline. (not with -x or -X)
.PP
The position of parameters -d, -f, -F, -e, -E and all tokens matters!
Tokens are read from file at the moment the -f option is parsed overriding
the current value(s). Optional trailing key/secret params are parsed last.
eg. '\-f config.txt -e -C secret -F out.txt -w' reads the settings from file,
then deletes the access/request tokens and finally overrides the consumer-
secret. Only the consumer-key is left from config.txt and will be saved 
to out.txt along with the new secret. If -X is given and the HTTP request
succeeds, the received token and secret will be stored in out.txt as well.
.PP
The request URL is constructed by first parsing all query-parameters from
the URL; then -d parameters are added, and finally oauth_XYZ params 
appended. The order of the request parameters (while different in the oauth
base-url) is preserved.
.PP
Note that there is also a difference between empty ("") and unset (NULL) parameters: 
an empty parameter is still included in the request, while an unset parameter is not.
use '-e' or '-E' to unset previously set parameters. 
.SH EXAMPLE
run the following commands in sequence to walk though an
.URL "http://term.ie/oauth/example/" "OAuth example".
Connecting to the server requires online connectivity. The file \fI/tmp/test.oaf\fP is used to store the OAuth tokens between the requests.

.PP
.Vb 1
\&oauthsign \-X \-f /tmp/test.oaf \-w \-e \-c key \-C secret http://term.ie/oauth/example/request_token.php
\&oauthsign \-X \-f /tmp/test.oaf \-w http://term.ie/oauth/example/access_token.php
\&oauthsign \-x \-f /tmp/test.oaf "http://term.ie/oauth/example/echo_api.php?method=foo%20bar&bar=baz"
\&oauthsign \-x \-f /tmp/test.oaf \-d method=foo%20bar \-d "bar=baz &test%" \-\-post http://term.ie/oauth/example/echo_api.php
.Ve

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR oauth-utils (7).
.SH AUTHOR
oauth-utils was written by Robin Gareus <robin@gareus.org>.
.PP
This manual page was also written by Robin Gareus <robin@gareus.org>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

